<p>Pseudodiastrophic dysplasia was first described in 2 infant sisters by Burgio et al. (1974). Although the disorder showed similarities to diastrophic dysplasia, specifically, rhizomelic shortening of the limbs and severe clubfoot deformity, other features were different. Both sisters died suddenly of unexplained hyperthermia, the first at age 8 months and the second at 4 days. Canki et al. (1979) reported the single case of an infant girl who died at 1 month of age. Features distinct from diastrophic dysplasia included proximal phalangeal joint dislocations and platyspondyly. Eteson et al. (1986) reported 4 unrelated patients with elbow dislocations and scoliosis. Odontoid hypoplasia with C1-C2 dislocation on flexion was demonstrated radiographically in 1 patient. Cystic enlargement of the pinnae does not occur in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia. The clubfoot of pseudodiastrophic dysplasia responds better to physical and surgical therapy than does that of diastrophic dysplasia. The distinct morphologic abnormality of the growth plate in diastrophic dysplasia consists of an irregular distribution of degenerating chondrocytes in the resting cartilage, with focal areas of aggregated collagen fibrils and large cystic areas containing fibrovascular tissue, resulting in intracartilagenous ossification. This histologic appearance has not been observed in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia. Canki-Klain et al. (1990) described 2 further cases. They pointed out that in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia platyspondyly is more pronounced than in diastrophic dysplasia and there is often marked lumbar lordosis. The vertebral bodies in the lumbar region show tongue-like deformities. The cranium shows an enlarged bitemporal diameter with midface hypoplasia. The hands are quite different with characteristic multiple interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joint dislocations with normal appearance of the first metacarpal in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia, and 'hitchhiker thumb' (abduction of the hypermobile and proximally inserted thumb) in diastrophic dysplasia. Cystic swelling of the pinnae appearing between the first day and the twelfth week of life in diastrophic dysplasia was never seen in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia. Several of the patients with pseudodiastrophic dysplasia died unexpectedly as neonates or infants. Canki-Klain et al. (1990) referred to a second unpublished observation of 2 affected sisters born to unrelated parents from Sicily. Three unrelated probands reported by the Maroteaux group (Canki-Klain et al., 1990) were all born to parents who originated from a mountainous, relatively closed region of Slovenia. Growth cartilage histology is said to be quite different in diastrophic dysplasia and pseudodiastrophic dysplasia.</p>

<p>Diastrophic dysplasia was shown by Hastbacka et al. (1994) to be the result of a defect in the sulfate transporter gene DTDST that encodes a widely distributed, sulfate/chloride antiporter of the cell membrane. Further studies showed that 2 other chondrodysplasias, atelosteogenesis type 2 and achondrogenesis type 1B are caused by mutations in the same sulfate transporter. Cetta et al. (1997) demonstrated that a patient with pseudodiastrophic dysplasia had no defect in the DTDST gene. Sulfate uptake by skin fibroblasts was normal, indicating normal sulfate transport. Sulfation of proteoglycans was also normal. No abnormality of the DTDST gene was demonstrated by SSCP screening. Fischetto et al. (1997) reported the case in a newborn. The patient studied was one of the longest-surviving patients known: case 2 reported by Eteson et al. (1986). He was 4 years old, 1 m tall, and of normal intelligence at the time of the report.</p>

<p>[Burgio, G. R., Belloni, C., Beluffi, G. Nanisme pseudodiastrophique: etude de deux soeurs nouveau-nees. Arch. Franc. Pediat. 31: 681-696, 1974.]<br/>
[Canki, N., Sernec-Logar, B., Prodan, M., Pintar, L. Le nanisme pseudodiastrophique: a propos d'une observation. J. Genet. Hum. 27: 247-252, 1979.]<br/>
[Eteson, D. J., Beluffi, G., Burgio, G. R., Belloni, C., Lachman, R. S., Rimoin, D. L. Pseudodiastrophic dysplasia: a distinct newborn skeletal dysplasia. J. Pediat. 109: 635-641, 1986.]<br/>
[Canki-Klain, N., Stanescu, V., Bebler, P., Maroteaux, P. Pseudodiastrophic dysplasia evolution with age and management: report of two new cases and review of the literature. Ann. Genet. 33: 129-136, 1990.]<br/>
[Hastbacka, J., de la Chapelle, A., Mahtani, M. M., Clines, G., Reeve-Daly, M. P., Daly, M., Hamilton, B. A., Kusumi, K., Trivedi, B., Weaver, A., Coloma, A., Lovett, M., Buckler, A., Kaitila, I., Lander, E. S. The diastrophic dysplasia gene encodes a novel sulfat transporter: positional cloning by fine-structure linkage disequilibrium mapping. Cell 78: 1073-1087, 1994.]<br/>
[Cetta, G., Rossi, A., Burgio, G. R., Beluffi, G. Diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter (DTDST) gene is not involved in pseudodiastrophic dysplasia. (Letter) Am. J. Med. Genet. 73: 493-494, 1997.]<br/>
[Fischetto, R., Causio, F., Corso, G., Lillo, V., Natale, B., Papadia, F. Pseudodiastrophic dysplasia type Burgio in a newborn. Am. J. Med. Genet. 71: 222-225, 1997.]<br/></p>