<p>Vilain et al. (1999) reported 3 boys with adrenal hypoplasia congenita (AHC; see) and additional findings representing a novel syndrome that they designated IMAGE: intrauterine growth retardation, metaphyseal dysplasia, AHC, and genital anomalies. The patients presented shortly after birth with growth retardation and severe adrenal insufficiency, and each had mild dysmorphic features, bilateral cryptorchidism, a small penis, and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Skeletal surveys revealed metaphyseal dysplasia in all 3 patients and epiphyseal dysplasia in 2. The patients had documented or suspected hypercalciuria and/or hypercalcemia, resulting in nephrocalcinosis in one and in prenatal liver and spleen calcifications in another. AHC presents most often either as an isolated abnormality, caused by mutations in the DAX1 gene (NR0B1;), or as part of an Xp21 contiguous gene syndrome caused by a deletion of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD;), glycerol kinase (GK;), and DAX1 genes. All 3 patients with the IMAGE association had normal creatine kinase levels and no evidence of GK deficiency. Sequence analysis revealed no mutation in the DAX1- or steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1;)-coding sequences and no deletion of DAX1.</p>

<p>Bergada et al. (2005) studied 4 children with IMAGE association (3 males, 1 female) from a large 5-generation pedigree. Ten additional members who died during the neonatal period who were born with intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) and/or hyperpigmentation were presumed to have been affected as well. All patients in this series were diagnosed during the newborn period. Adrenal insufficiency was variable within patients. All had severe IUGR and marked postnatal growth failure. Sequence analysis from 2 patients revealed no mutation in DAX1. Analysis of the pedigree revealed a pattern consistent with inheritance via the maternal line. Hence, the pattern of inheritance in this family of this unusual disorder might be explained in terms of the genomic imprinting hypothesis, with expression through maternal transmission involving an autosomal gene.</p>

<p>Tan et al. (2006) described 2 sisters with intrauterine growth retardation, AHC, and dysmorphic facial features including small low-set ears. Both girls had normal genitalia. The older girl died suddenly at age 3 months after developing a respiratory tract infection. Radiologic examination of the younger girl at age 6 months found widened rib metaphyses, metaphyseal cupping of the metacarpals and proximal phalanges, and absence of the femoral capital epiphyses. Tan et al. (2006) analyzed DNA from the younger sister for mutations in the candidate genes DAX1, SF1, and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR;) but found no mutations. Two older brothers in this family had normal growth and development.</p>

<p>[Vilain, E., Le Merrer, M., Lecointre, C., Desangles, F., Kay, M. A., Maroteaux, P., McCabe, E. R. B. IMAGE, a new clinical association of intrauterine growth retardation, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, and genital anomalies. J. Clin. Endocr. Metab. 84: 4335-4340, 1999.]<br/>
[Bergada, I., del Rey, G., Lapunzina, P., Bergada, C., Fellous, M., Copelli, S. Familial occurrence of the IMAGe association: additional clinical variants and a proposed mode of inheritance. J. Clin. Endocr. Metab. 90: 3186-3190, 2005.]<br/>
[Tan, T. Y., Jameson, J. L., Campbell, P. E., Ekert, P. G., Zacharin, M., Savarirayan, R. Two sisters with IMAGE syndrome: cytomegalic adrenal histopathology, support for autosomal recessive inheritance and literature review. Am. J. Med. Genet. 140A: 1778-1784, 2006.]<br/></p>